Title: How I Developed My Website Using Python Pelican
Description: Using Python Pelican for developing my website documenting my research and open-source projects. 
Date: 2026-04-17
Authors: Kian Wee Chen
Status: published
Duration: 3 mins
Category: Tutorial

I have been using Jekyll with Github pages for my website. Jekyll is a great static site generator with many great themes available. I was quite happy with my Jekyll site. However, Jekyll is written in Ruby, I am much more comfortable with Python. I get really nervous about breaking something whenever I want to change the underlying theme. I chose Jekyll previously cause of the availability of great looking themes, which is not exactly the case with Pelican. I finally found the time and the determination to make the transition to Pelican recently. Unfortunately, after searching around online, Pelican still faces the same issues of lacking good looking themes. I will have to dive into Pelican and customize it for my website.

Pelican has a decent <a href="https://docs.getpelican.com/en/latest/index.html" target="_blank">documentation site</a>. The site's Getting Started provide basic installation, create a project and site generation guides. It is useful to go through them and have a sense of the Pelican workflow. However, I feel there are not sufficient materials for beginners like me who wants to build a good looking website for documenting my works. I search online and found two good tutorials <a href="https://inventwithpython.com/blog/pelican-tutorial.html" target="_blank">here</a> and <a href="https://mosaid.xyz/articles/complete-tutorial--creating-categories-and-subcategories-using-pages-in-pelican-2.html" target="_blank">here</a>, that really help me with understanding Pelican, and I used LLMs like Gemini to help with the learning. I wrote a <a href="../pelican-tutorial/intro-pelican" target="_blank">**series of Pelican tutorials**</a> to document my Pelican learning journey. The tutorials are mainly for myself so I would remember what I have done. At the same time, I hope the tutorials can be helpful for anyone who is thinking of working on their own website using Pelican.